January 2023 newsletter - ready for review (#203)
readthedocs/blog: newsletter-january-2023.rst

> .. post:: Jan 1, 2023

Author: ```suggestion
.. post:: Jan 6, 2023
```

  
  Feature not done?
  Make sure that upcoming features are announced with a link to issues or PRs where the progress can be seen.
  If this is done, then subsequent newsletters aren't compelled to share progress when it's uninteresting.
  
  If a feature was announced as upcoming but isn't yet released,
  then try rephrasing the announcement as a general news update about the progress and where it can be followed.

The core team has laid out its 2023 Q1 roadmap and our general focus will be on:

- Improving support for using *any* documentation tool in the build process.
- Currently, users can either customize a default build process or overwrite the entire process from scratch.
  We are aligning these two approaches,
  making it easier to design and configure builds for a project's individual needs.
- Continuing to restructure and rewrite the user documentation of Read the Docs.
  We look forward to publishing the restructured documentation which is likely happening at the end of Q1.
- Dashboard redesign: The entire Dashboard will be redesigned and re-implemented.

>   This work is about to be launched!

Author: These are not very specific "features". I ended up using high-level roadmap items instead of issues/PRs, but it seems good since we're kicking off a new quarter?

I did re-formulate things a lot, the intention is to put focus on relevance to users. Not sure if I succeed very well in that.

>   This work is about to be launched!

Reviewer: Yeah, I don't know if makes sense mentioning it _again_. It seems like "old news" to me. We've been promoting this work since April 2021: https://github.com/readthedocs/blog/blob/d627e9fc6e183ff40c8f152375ec42c563daaa81/newsletter-april-2021.rst?plain=1#L91-L94

If we want to mention this, we should probably rephrase it to say that we are going to resume working on this or similar.

>   This work is about to be launched!

Author: It's funny though how @ericholscher's formulation is so consistent with almost 2 years span - "we hope to launch in public beta soon" and "we are hoping to have a public beta in Q1"

It does seem like a good thing to know what the difference is "this time" from the previous time that it was mentioned. I imagine that we have become a lot better at planning? So perhaps there is a bit more "confidence" behind this announcement.

I'll remove the beta announcement. I'll just write that we are working towards a public beta and not anything about when it's launched?

Awesome Read the Docs Projects List 🕶️
--------------------------------------

Looking for more inspiration?
Check out our new list `Awesome Read the Docs Projects <https://github.com/readthedocs-examples/awesome-read-the-docs>`_
and help us discover more awesome projects.

Read the Docs for Business
--------------------------

Considering using Read the Docs for an organization?

.. raw:: html

   <a href="https://about.readthedocs.com/" style="background-color: #409cff; border-radius: 3px; color: #ffffff; display: block; margin: 30px auto; font-size: 18px; font-weight: 700; line-height: 24px; padding: 15px 0 15px 0; text-align: center; text-decoration: none; width: 238px;">
     Discover all the features ✨️

>    </a>

Author: Any feedback on this specific proposal or ideas for a different "call to action" button?

@humitos suggested at the last newsletter that we start having a large button. I didn't find anything in the content to immediately connect the message to, so this is a bit generic.

Author: Great! I'll make a note for the next newsletter to consider more "call to action" ideas.

  
  Feature not done?
  Make sure that upcoming features are announced with a link to issues or PRs where the progress can be seen.
  If this is done, then subsequent newsletters aren't compelled to share progress when it's uninteresting.
  
  If a feature was announced as upcoming but isn't yet released,
  then try rephrasing the announcement as a general news update about the progress and where it can be followed.

The core team has laid out its 2023 Q1 roadmap and our general focus will be on:

- Improving support for using *any* documentation tool in the build process.
- Currently, users can either customize a default build process or overwrite the entire process from scratch.
  We are aligning these two approaches,
  making it easier to design and configure builds for a project's individual needs.
- Continuing to restructure and rewrite the user documentation of Read the Docs.
  We look forward to publishing the restructured documentation which is likely happening at the end of Q1.
- Dashboard redesign: Our admin dashboard is currently being redesigned and reimplemented.
  We are hoping to have a public beta in Q1.

Interested in all the details? `View our full Roadmap 📍️`_

> .. _View our full Roadmap 📍️: https://github.com/orgs/readthedocs/projects/156/views/4

Author: @ericholscher pay attention to this one! @humitos and I was on a call and he suggested that we add a button with the roadmap since we are talking a lot about it. We then looked at a previous mention of the roadmap, where it was said that we would announce it in the future.

We agreed to do a soft announcement and then perhaps write something more in the next newsletter, so we can brew up at text that tells readers what the intention is with this link -- like why should you bother, how do you tell us that you want a bug fix or a feature etc.

Reviewer 2: Yea, makes sense 👍

.. post:: Jan 1, 2023
   :tags: newsletter, python
   :author: Ben
   :location: MLM

.. meta::
   :description lang=en:
      Company updates and new features from the last month,
      current focus, and upcoming features.

Read the Docs newsletter - January 2023
=======================================

Happy 2023! In this newsletter, we present the updates happening in 2022's last month and since the :doc:`previous newsletter </newsletter-december-2022>`.

.. Commenting out this stuff, isn't it better that 
.. 
.. News and updates
.. ----------------
.. 

> .. Here are the latest updates from our team:

Reviewer: I think this section gives some context to the following bullets. Otherwise, I'm not sure it feels fine to start reading a bunch of items without too much context about what they are.

Author: Aren't you commenting on something that I commented _out_ (because of the same reasons you also stated) ? :)

Reviewer: It seems you commented it to remove it. My point is that we should keep it because it works fine.

Author: Sure, I can bring it back. I wanted to remove it to get the list further up on the screen.

Writing "Newsletter", then an intro, then "News and updates", then "Here are the latest updates from our team" just seemed like a slow start. Thought it'd be more simple to present the list as quickly as possible.

Author: I re-added it so we can get the newsletter out. I still don't like to have such a long intro, but I'll repeat the proposal in the next newsletter.

> - 📹️ Eric's talk at DjangoCon US can be watched here: `Documenting Django Code in 2022`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 📹️ Eric delivered a talk at DjangoCon US 2022 about the state of art to document a project in 2022. You can watch it here: `Documenting Django Code in 2022`_
```

> - 🛠️ We are busy reorganizing our own documentation. Since last newsletter, we have opened or merged 20 documentation PRs. We look forward to a "show and tell" about how all of this was refactored using the `Diátaxis Framework`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 🛠️ We continued reorganizing our own documentation to follow `Diátaxis Framework`_.
  We look forward to a "show and tell" about our experience refactoring them using this framework.
```

- 🚢️ Sphinx 6.0 and 6.1 have been released. Read :doc:`our considerations for upgrading </sphinx6-upgrade>`.
- ⚙️ Add new stuff here
- 💡️ Choose your own emoji

> - 🔍️ 404 pages are being improved by contextualization the user message, giving relevant guidance to readers and project owners.

Reviewer: Didn't we already talked about this in a previous newsletter?

Reviewer: It seems we have the same line in the December newsletter: https://blog.readthedocs.com/newsletter-december-2022/

BTW, I don't like this patter of copy&paste the previous one without removing the old content. Iit's hard to know what's really going out in _this one in particular_. If it's a placeholder, it should be clear it's a placeholder. Otherwise, it's confusing for reviewers.

Author: Sure, like this is not open "for review" but a draft where you can add ideas.

> You can always see the latest changes to our platforms in our :doc:`Read the Docs Changelog <readthedocs:changelog>`.

Reviewer 3: We should probably mention https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/security/advisories/GHSA-368m-86q9-m99w

Author: Added :+1: 

I hope it's fine to add with no further context, I feel like it's hard to give a quick summary and that only people that self-host really need to review it.

.. _Documenting Django Code in 2022: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mqn0D4xat58
.. _Diátaxis Framework: https://diataxis.fr/

Upcoming features
-----------------

- We're working on improving our integration with `Material for MkDocs <https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/>`_, which is a great theme for `MkDocs <https://www.mkdocs.org/>`_ documentation projects.
- Many improvements to our URL handling code, which will allow us to support more flexible URL configurations for projects.

> - A search redesign to make it nicer across our dashboard and in-doc search experiences. 

Reviewer: Here as well. This is old content from the December newsletter.

Author: I know

Author: "Upcoming features" has had duplications previously. I would like to keep it because it ensures that there is a follow up. I.e. that we don't announce an upcoming feature and then ghost it in the next newsletter.

Reviewer: I would avoid publishing duplicated content on the newsletters. Seems like a bad practice to me and it's like reading old news.

Publishing that "we are working on something" it does not mean that it has to be completed before the next newsletter. It also does not mean that if we don't finish it, we will repeat the announcement.

I'm fine with a "follow-up", but we should give _something new/extra_ to our readers --not the same content. If we made some progress on that task, we can tell them about that progress.

Author: > I would avoid publishing duplicated content on the newsletters. Seems like a bad practice to me and it's like reading old news.

I agree with this, I don't want that neither. As with previous newsletters, I'll go over these items and see if they will have a "news update" or if there's another way to keep readers updated on the progress.

I can add a Sphinx comment to clarify that the intention isn't to repeat the text.

Author: Added some notes as a comment.

- 

Possible issues

> ---------------

Reviewer: The two issues mentioned here, should probably a bullet list since they are two different things. It's easier to skim and read in a list.

> Sphinx 6 and 6.1 were released very recently and you may experience issues if you upgrade or if you have not pinned your documentation dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sphinx 6.0 and 6.1 were released very recently and you may experience issues if you upgrade or if you have not pinned your documentation dependencies.
```

I think we should tell the users what to do here or how to fix the issue or something. Some guidance in case they hit an issue.

I don't think we have to explain _the solutions_ here, but at least a link somewhere to read more --or how to pin the dependencies, etc.

We are actively updating our theme to support Sphinx and docutils updates. If you find regressions in any new releases of the `sphinx-rtd-theme <https://sphinx-rtd-theme.readthedocs.io/>`_,

> please don't hesitate to `open an issue on GitHub <https://github.com/readthedocs/sphinx_rtd_theme/>`_.

Reviewer: Please, follow semantic line break all across the document.

Author: I hope you know that the intention is to do that? We write an awful lot of text every day _without_ semantic line breaks, so it's hard to practice a natural habit with this.
